#LyX 1.6.4.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 345
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\language british
\inputencoding auto
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\author "" 
\author "" 
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
SciPy-Simulation Project - Glossary of Terms
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The scipy-simulator project aims to create a visual stream processing system
 for different models of computation using tagged signals communicating
 over uni-directional channels to asynchronous and deterministic blocks.
 In the shorthand notation introduced by Stephens
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citet
key "stephens1997survey"

\end_inset

 the dataflow network type is ADU-SPS.
 Note there may be individual blocks that are not deterministic - eg a random
 source.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Much of the semantics comes from Liu and Lee in 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "liu2008cpo"

\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
Actor An individual component in a system
\begin_inset Foot
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Actors are refered to in some literature as agents
\end_layout

\end_inset

.
 Actors run in parrallel, in charge of their own actions.
 Data is provided to them from the environment - which may include other
 actors.
 They may react to the data and provide data back to the environment.
 Our Actor is closer to that of the Ptolemy II project than the classical
 Actor model of Hewitt and Agha, although each component does have its own
 thread of control.
 
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Description
Primitive
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

Actor An Actor that is not defined in terms of other actors.
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Description
Ports Actors have ports over which they communicate with the environment,
 there is a distinction between input and output ports.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
Channels A unidirectional pipe implemented with a FIFO queue connecting
 Actors.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
System A collection of Actors communicating via channels.
 The system state may not be observable, and may not be well defined.
 The structure must be static, its the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

source code
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 for the simulation.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
Event A 
\emph on
tag/value 
\emph default
pair - every
\emph on
 
\emph default
discrete communication over a channel is an event.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
Signal The set of every event in a channel makes a signal - often this is
 infinite.
 A signal must be associated with 2 ports.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
Stream
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

Processing
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

System
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

(SPS) A system comprised of a collection of modules that compute in parallel,
 that communicate data via channels.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Types of Blocks
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
Source A source block creates at least one output signal, it may have initial
 parameters but no input signals.
 Sources pass data into the system.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
Filter A block that alters its input to create an output.
 A filter performs some atomic computation.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
Sink A block that passes data out of the system.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset bibtex
LatexCommand bibtex
bibfiles "bibliography"
options "bibtotoc,plain"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
